Bouncy Magenta Nightingale

high

# Users are unable to claim tokens now and might be able to drain the whole contract

## Summary
Users are unable to claim tokens now and might be able to drain the whole contract
## Vulnerability Detail
Users can call `PerAddressTrancheVestingMerkleDistributor#claim()` in order to claim tokens. They provide input data that is validated using a merkle tree. 
```solidity
    function claim(
        uint256 index, // the beneficiary's index in the merkle root
        address beneficiary, // the address that will receive tokens
        uint256 totalAmount, // the total claimable by this beneficiary
        bytes32[] calldata merkleProof
    )
        external
        validMerkleProof(keccak256(abi.encodePacked(index, beneficiary, totalAmount)), merkleProof)
        nonReentrant
    {
        // effects
        uint256 claimedAmount = _executeClaim(beneficiary, totalAmount, new bytes(0));
        // interactions
        _settleClaim(beneficiary, claimedAmount);
    }
```
While there is another issue here that `_executeClaim()` is always called with `bytes(0)`, there is another issue here as well. The function does not receive the tranches as an input and of course, they are also not validated to be valid using the merkle tree.
This creates 2 possible issues:
1. The function does not allow users to claim at all since the tranches are not provided
2. If the function is changed to accept tranches data, then they still won't be validated using the merkle tree unless that is changed as well, effectively allowing users to provide a tranche such that the `time` allows for a claim at the current time and `vestedFraction` value of it is so large that it allows the whole contract to be drained immediately.
## Impact
The issue above explains a current issue that allows users to not be able to claim tokens. It also explains an issue that could arise in the future allowing the contract to be drained immediately which as stated in the contest page, issues that could arise in the future will be considered valid.
## Code Snippet
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-05-tokensoft-distributor-contracts-update/blob/67edd899612619b0acefdcb0783ef7a8a75caeac/contracts/packages/hardhat/contracts/claim/factory/PerAddressTrancheVestingMerkleDistributor.sol#L51-L65
## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation
Accept the tranches data as an input and include it in the merkle tree validation.