High Mango Mule

medium

# Vulnerability/Limitation in `adjust` Function

## Summary
The `adjust` function in the smart contract has a vulnerability that allows the total claimable tokens for a beneficiary to be adjusted without verifying whether the new total is greater than or equal to the previously claimed amount. As a result, some users may experience reverted claim functions even when they have sufficient claimable tokens.

## Vulnerability Detail

The issue arises when the function decreases the claimable tokens. It fails to check whether the new total (after adjustment) is less than the previously claimed amount. Consequently, this can negatively impact users who attempt to redeem their tokens.

## Impact
 Users with enough token to claim based on the calculation by the claimable function are  unable to claim tokens even though they have enough claimable tokens.

Based on the code implementation a users total can be adjusted by owner but this fails to check if the beneficiary's claimed amount is more than the new total. 
Therefore,
 1. The total amount to be claimed by all users 1,000,000.
 
 2.  user B has claimed 10,000. out of his 12,000 initial total.
 
 3.  owner calls to reduce beneficiary's total to 9,000. 
 
 4. user B will not be able to claim again HAS claimable amount will be 0
  
 5.  but this line shows that    
```solidity
  token.safeTransfer(owner(), diff);             
```
 The difference is transferred out of the entire pool's total. 

6. this will negatively affect another user let say user Z. who is the last to redeem because 8000 token will be available

```solidity
  total -= diff;             
```
 and his total claimable amount is 9000 .



## Code Snippet
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-05-tokensoft-distributor-contracts-update/blob/main/contracts/packages/hardhat/contracts/claim/abstract/AdvancedDistributor.sol#L111-L140
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-05-tokensoft-distributor-contracts-update/blob/main/contracts/packages/hardhat/contracts/claim/PerAddressContinuousVestingMerkle.sol#L69
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-05-tokensoft-distributor-contracts-update/blob/main/contracts/packages/hardhat/contracts/claim/PerAddressTrancheVestingMerkle.sol#L66
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-05-tokensoft-distributor-contracts-update/blob/main/contracts/packages/hardhat/contracts/claim/abstract/Distributor.sol#L89-L97
## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation

To address this vulnerability:
1. Always check if the new total of a beneficiary is less than the claimed amount before transferring tokens out.
9. If the new total is less than the claimed amount, consider reverting the function to prevent reversion of the claim function of other users.

