Winning Maroon Porcupine

medium

# `_setPseudorandomValue` will not work properly for Arbitrum

## Summary

The `FairQueueInitializable` contract, when deployed on Arbitrum, uses the `blockhash` function to generate pseudorandom values for delay times. However, Arbitrum's implementation of `blockhash` is insecure and not suitable for randomness, resulting in exploitable delay assignments.
## Vulnerability Detail

> On what chains are the smart contracts going to be deployed?  
> Any EVM-compatible networks (Ethereum, Base, Polygon, BSC, etc.)

The `FairQueueInitializable` contract uses `blockhash(block.number - 1)` to generate a pseudorandom value for calculating delays. On Arbitrum, `blockhash` returns non-cryptographic hashes for blocks within the range `block.number - 256 <= x < block.number`. This behavior makes the delay times predictable and exploitable.

```solidity
function _setPseudorandomValue(uint160 salt) internal {
    if (distancePerSecond == 0) {
        // there is no delay: random value is not needed
        return;
    }
    require(salt > 0, "I demand more randomness");
    randomValue = uint160(uint256(blockhash(block.number - 1))) ^ salt;
}
```

[Arbitrum's documentation](https://docs.arbitrum.io/build-decentralized-apps/arbitrum-vs-ethereum/solidity-support):

> Returns a cryptographically insecure, pseudo-random hash for x within the range block.number - 256 <= x < block.number. If x is outside of this range, blockhash(x) will return 0. This includes blockhash(block.number), which always returns 0 just like on Ethereum. The hashes returned do not come from L1. ⚠️ Arbitrum's L2 block hashes should not be relied on as a secure source of randomness.

## Impact


Given that blockhash on Arbitrum is not cryptographically secure, a validator or miner with the ability to influence or predict the blockhash can manipulate the randomValue used to assign delays. By manipulating the randomValue, the validator can ensure that specific addresses (potentially their own or those of colluding participants) receive minimal or zero delay times.
## Code Snippet

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-05-tokensoft-distributor-contracts-update/blob/main/contracts/packages/hardhat/contracts/claim/factory/FairQueueInitializable.sol#L36-L44

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation
