Winning Maroon Porcupine

medium

# Lack of Access Control in deployDistributor Function

## Summary

The deployDistributor function in the `PerAddressContinuousVestingMerkleDistributorFactory` and  `PerAddressContinuousVestingMerkleDistributorFactory` contract lacks access control, allowing anyone to deploy a new distributor. This function should be restricted to authorized entities to prevent unauthorized deployments.

## Vulnerability Detail

The deployDistributor function is publicly accessible, meaning any user can call this function and deploy a new PerAddressContinuousVestingMerkleDistributor contract. This function should ideally be restricted to the contract owner or an authorized entity to prevent unauthorized deployments.

```solidity
function deployDistributor(
    IERC20 _token,
    uint256 _total,
    string memory _uri,
    bytes32 _merkleRoot,
    uint160 _maxDelayTime,
    address _owner,
    uint256 _nonce
) public returns (PerAddressContinuousVestingMerkleDistributor distributor) {
    bytes32 salt = _getSalt(
        _token,
        _total,
        _uri,
        _merkleRoot,
        _maxDelayTime,
        _owner,
        _nonce
    );

    distributor = PerAddressContinuousVestingMerkleDistributor(Clones.cloneDeterministic(i_implementation, salt));
    distributors.push(address(distributor));

    emit DistributorDeployed(address(distributor));

    distributor.initialize(_token, _total, _uri, _merkleRoot, _maxDelayTime, _owner);

    return distributor;
}
```
## Impact

Unintended Deployments:

- Unauthorized entities can deploy distributors, leading to a potentially large number of unnecessary distributor contracts.
-  Increased gas costs for the contract owner due to the additional storage used when new distributors are added to the distributors array.

Predictable Addresses:

- Malicious actors can precompute the addresses of the new distributors and deploy contracts with malicious intent.

## Code Snippet

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-05-tokensoft-distributor-contracts-update/blob/main/contracts/packages/hardhat/contracts/claim/factory/PerAddressContinuousVestingMerkleDistributorFactory.sol#L39-L68

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-05-tokensoft-distributor-contracts-update/blob/main/contracts/packages/hardhat/contracts/claim/factory/PerAddressContinuousVestingMerkleDistributorFactory.sol#L39-L68

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation

Implement access control using OpenZeppelin's Ownable contract to restrict the deployDistributor function to the contract owner. This will prevent unauthorized entities from deploying new distributors.


